# Istio add-on module release v3.1.1

Welcome to the latest release of `istio` module of [`Kubernetes Fury Distribution`](https://github.com/sighupio/fury-distribution) maintained by team SIGHUP.

This is a minor release that:

- Updates Jaeger to version 1.61.0

## Upgrade Guide 🦮

### Upgrade procedure - Istio

1. Update the version in your `Furyfile.yml` file:

```yaml
bases:
  - name: istio/istio-operator
    version: v3.1.1
```

2. Download the module:

```bash
furyctl legacy vendor
```

3. Build your desired profile Kustomize base and apply it to the cluster, for example for the `minimal` profile run:

```bash
kustomize build /vendor/katalog/istio/istio-operator/profiles/minimal | kubectl apply -f
```

Jaeger Operator Upgrade Notes

In this release, Jaeger has been updated to version 1.61.0. If you are using the Jaeger operator as part of your Istio deployment, please note the following updates and distinctions between the Jaeger Operator and the Jaeger Operated components.

Jaeger Operator

1.No Special Action for Jaeger Operator Required: The Jaeger operator itself does not require any special upgrade steps. You can apply the project as usual, and it will continue to function without requiring any manual intervention or changes to the operator.

To apply the latest version of the Jaeger operator, run the following command:

``` bash
kustomize build /vendor/katalog/istio-operator/jaeger-operator | kubectl apply -f
```

Jaeger Operated

1.Namespace Standardization for Jaeger Operated: The namespace used by the Jaeger Operated component has been updated to follow the standard conventions used by the Jaeger operator. This change ensures consistency across deployments. If you are upgrading from a previous version, review any custom namespace configurations to ensure compatibility with this update.

2.No Upgrade Required for Existing Jaeger Operated: If you already have a Jaeger Operated resource deployed, there is no need to update or modify this configuration. The definitions remain the same as in previous versions, and the upgrade will not affect existing deployments.

To apply the latest version of the Jaeger Operated component for new installations, run the following command:

```bash
kustomize build /vendor/katalog/istio-operator/jaeger-operated | kubectl apply -f
```

Note: For new installations, no additional steps are required beyond the standard installation process. However, if you are upgrading from an older version, ensure your namespace configuration aligns with the standardized namespace used in this release.
